According to
The New York Times, Israel
obtained Hamas's battle
plan for October 7th,
more than a year in advance.
And I've seen
some of the documents myself,
ones I saw were dated October 20, 22.
The Times points out
that Hamas documents
that they saw
are shockingly close to reality.
They called for a barrage of rockets
at the outset of the attack.
Hamas did that.
They called
for breaking through the wall.
Hamas did that.
They called for entering via
a paraglider. Hamas did that.
They called for entering via motorcycle.
Hamas did that.
Mark,
to know why this document was dismissed?
Well, it's clear
there was an amazing mishap, a failure.
There's no excuses for it.
And we have to look into this.
We paid for our mistakes
on October
7th in blood
in the blood of
over 1200
Israelis who were who were murdered
and another 240 that were kidnaped
and taken to Gaza.
So we have to take this very seriously.
And we can't accept such a failure.
We pride ourselves as Israelis
for having excellent
intelligence services.
And in this case,
maybe the information there,
it wasn't understood.
It didn't go
up the chain like it should have.
We have to investigate that.
We have to find out
exactly what happened.
You know, 50 years ago, Erin, there was a
a similar colossal intelligence failure
when we were attacked in 1973 on the
Yom Kippur War
from the south by Egypt,
from the north, by Syria.
And we were then taken by surprise.
And we had after that,
we had a commission of inquiry
and lessons were learned
and it was important process for Israel
and we will probably do the same thing
now, I'm sure, when this war is over.
We have to look very carefully
at what happened.
Where was the information?
Why wasn't it understood?
Who is responsible?
Well, so in July, a veteran intelligence
veteran I'm sorry, Israeli
intelligence analyst said
that Hamas had conducted an intense day
long training exercise.
And the analysts said
this appears similar to
what was outlined in the blueprint.
Now, the analyst,
we understand, works for Unit 8200,
which is Israel saying
signals intelligence
agency went ahead and warned higher ups.
And according to encrypted emails
reviewed by The New York Times,
two things then happened.
One, Mark,
is that a colonel in the Gaza
division brushed off the concerns.
And two
is that veteran analysts commented,
and I quote,
I utterly refute that
the scenario is imaginary.
You can almost hear the frustration
in the words
that that analysts chose to use.
Mark, I'm curious
as to what you think as to
why there was such disbelief
when Israel at that point
had the battle plans
and then visual proof of the plans
being practiced.
Why was there still such disbelief?
So all these questions need
to be looked at seriously
and professionally and objectively
and will do this.
It's our obligation.
I mean, ultimately,
Israel will continue to live in a in a
in a challenging neighborhood
and some other
some would even say
a dangerous neighborhood.
And therefore, it's
our obligation
that our intelligence services
have to be good.
And if there are failures,
we have to understand
where the failures happened
and why they happened.
So was the Prime Minister
Netanyahu aware of the Hamas document?
I'm not aware that he was.
I don't know that he was aware he would.
He's said, like everyone else,
that when when the
in their investigations
after this war exactly what happened,
he will, of course,
be there to answer questions
and tell exactly what he was given
and what he wasn't given.
But at this point, you
and he haven't even had a conversation
as to
whether he was aware of these documents.
The New York Times reporting about.
No, not this specific document.
But we have
we have had conversations
on this general level.
But once again, these discussions
we need to discuss
at the right
time in the right time
will be after this war at the moment.
I think all of Israel is focused
on winning this war.
We have to win this war against Hamas
so that October 7th
can never happen again.